
What is common knowledge?

Common knowledge’ refers to any piece of information that:

is widely known within a specific discipline;
may frequently be found in different academic sources, unreferenced;
may be attributed to a number of different authors.
This brief definition should help you realise that common knowledge can be subject-specific: concepts and information that are widely known in environmental science, for example, may not be widely known in art history, and vice versa.

Common knowledge also depends on the level of study. If you are new to a subject area, you will have less knowledge and understanding about the topic than if you are an expert. The more experience you develop, the more your subject-specific language will develop – but, at the same time, you will also use more specific evidence from other people’s work to support your own work and ideas.

It should be evident that, in general, there is no need to provide a reference for a piece of factual information that is deemed to be common knowledge. However, deciding whether something is ‘common knowledge’ is a matter of academic judgement!

For example, the dates of the Second World War, the chemical symbol for water, pi to two decimal places or the current prime minister of the UK are all common knowledge in the UK. This is because:

most people know these things;
they are easy to verify by referring to a number of different, easily accessible sources (e.g. a dictionary, encyclopedia, asking friends, etc.).
Anything that has to be looked up in a specialist reference book or is attributable to a specific author would not count as common knowledge. You need to consider who you are writing for when you are deciding whether something is ‘common knowledge’ or not. If you are not sure whether something is or is not common knowledge, the best approach is to include a reference to the source where you found the information.




    Common knowledge is information that is accepted and known so widely that you do not need to cite it
    and is a phenomenon which underwrites much of life.  Broadly speaking, it is information that the 
    average, educated person would accept as reliable without having to look it up.
    
How does it work? 

In order to communicate or otherwise coordinate their behavior successfully, individuals typically 
require mutual or common understandings or background knowledge. Indeed, if a particular interaction
results in “failure”, the usual explanation for this is that the agents involved did not have the 
common knowledge that would have resulted in success. 

If a married couple are separated in a department store, they stand a good chance of finding one 
another because their common knowledge of each others' tastes and experiences leads them each to 
look for the other in a part of the store both know that both would tend to frequent. Since the 
spouses both love cappuccino, each expects the other to go to the coffee bar, and they find one another. 

But in a less happy case, if a pedestrian causes a minor traffic jam by crossing against a red light,
they explains their mistake as the result of them not noticing, and therefore not knowing, the status
of the traffic signal that all the motorists knew. The spouses coordinate successfully given their 
common knowledge, while the pedestrian and the motorists miscoordinate as the result of a breakdown 
in common knowledge.
  
  
  
Common knowledge is information that is accepted and known so widely that you do not need to cite it and is a phenomenon
which underwrites much of social life.  Broadly speaking, it is information that the average, educated person would 
accept as reliable without having to look it up. 

* Information that most people know, such as that water freezes at 32 degrees Fahrenheit or that Barack Obama was the 
first American of mixed race to be elected president.
* Information shared by a cultural or national group, such as the names of famous heroes or events in the nation’s 
history that are remembered and celebrated.
* Knowledge shared by members of a certain field, such as the fact that the necessary condition for diffraction of 
radiation of wavelength from a crystalline solid is given by Bragg’s law.
* However, what may be common knowledge in one culture, nation, academic discipline or peer group may not be common 
knowledge in another.

What is not Common Knowledge?

* Datasets generated by you or others.
* Statistics obtained from sources such as the US Census Bureau and the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
* References to studies done by others.
* Reference to specific dates, numbers, or facts the reader would not know unless s/he had done the research.



https://www.open.edu/openlearn/education/educational-technology-and-practice/educational-practice/developing-good-academic-practice/content-section-4
