# INTRODUCTION

# DESCRIPTION
There are 2 types of knowledge that Kanban-Zai recognises...

## Codified knowledge

What is codified knowledge?

(in order of importance)
1. Self documenting software through robust [design](https://uxplanet.org/ux-vs-ui-vs-ia-vs-ixd-4-confusing-digital-design-terms-defined-1ae2f82418c7])
2. Self documenting code, including test suites.
3. Automation tools such as monitoring, bots and neural networks. 


## Common knowledge. When in doubt, cite your source.

What is common knowledge?

Common knowledge is information that is accepted and known so widely that you do not need to cite it and is a phenomenon
which underwrites much of social life.  Broadly speaking, it is information that the average, educated person would 
accept as reliable without having to look it up. 

* Information that most people know, such as that water freezes at 32 degrees Fahrenheit or that Barack Obama was the 
first American of mixed race to be elected president.
* Information shared by a cultural or national group, such as the names of famous heroes or events in the nation’s 
history that are remembered and celebrated.
* Knowledge shared by members of a certain field, such as the fact that the necessary condition for diffraction of 
radiation of wavelength from a crystalline solid is given by Bragg’s law.
* However, what may be common knowledge in one culture, nation, academic discipline or peer group may not be common 
knowledge in another.

What is not Common Knowledge?

* Datasets generated by you or others.
* Statistics obtained from sources such as the US Census Bureau and the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
* References to studies done by others.
* Reference to specific dates, numbers, or facts the reader would not know unless s/he had done the research.

How does it work? 

[In order to communicate or otherwise coordinate their behavior successfully, individuals typically require mutual or 
common understandings or background knowledge. Indeed, if a particular interaction results in “failure”, the usual 
explanation for this is that the agents involved did not have the common knowledge that would have resulted in success. 

If a married couple are separated in a department store, they stand a good chance of finding one another because their 
common knowledge of each others' tastes and experiences leads them each to look for the other in a part of the store 
both know that both would tend to frequent. Since the spouses both love cappuccino, each expects the other to go to the 
coffee bar, and they find one another. 

But in a less happy case, if a pedestrian causes a minor traffic jam by crossing against a red light, she explains her 
mistake as the result of her not noticing, and therefore not knowing, the status of the traffic signal that all the 
motorists knew. The spouses coordinate successfully given their common knowledge, while the pedestrian and the motorists
miscoordinate as the result of a breakdown in common knowledge.

### documentation

Usually, in most business enterprises, common knowledge is written down in documentation to facilitate the passing of
such knowledge to the subsequent iteration of employees, but more often it is not written down at all.

Any form of written documentation must be considered Technical Debt.  It is out of date very quickly and a chore to 
maintain, and it is a skill to write good documentation, the implication being that documentation is only as good as
the person writing it, the skill of the person reading it and if it is current.  

For example:-
 
The best written portugese document is completely useless to an english only speaker and likewise the documentation 
for the operation of a nuclear plant would be dangerous in the hands of those uneducated in nuclear power plants.

Another consideration is the sheer amount of documentation that can build up, that takes a very long time to sift
through manually and search engines often make the problem worse, not better because the searcher usually is
uncertain of what they are even looking for and if they were they wouldn't need to search.

From one perspective documentation can be considered a subjective dangerous waste of time and from a another perspective 
a useful and necessary part of any system.

The key is to find a balance, with the emphasis on minimising the amount of documentation that ever needs to be written
and actively retiring as much documentation as you can as fast as you can.

Kanban-Zai only mandates one thing with respect to documentation.__  If you choose to maintain a cache of documenation
for your software then maintaining it MUST be part of your teams definition of done.

Further than that Kanban-Zai discourages documentation as a general rule.  In certain cases documentation is the 
correct tool for the job but doesn't usually scale well.

### Best practices.

* Actively restrict the documentation that is allowed to be written.  Do not treat it as an after thought.
* Activley choose to codify the knowledge rather than document it.
* Gossip.


## Gossip

What is gossip?

[An industry example of how gossip works](https://ux.stackexchange.com/questions/55426/how-does-something-become-common-knowledge)

So, can gossip help a team to collaborate?

People are resistant to thinking about gossip as anything but a bad behavior, and there are some types of gossip that 
should be avoided, such as gossip that is purely harmful and serves no greater purpose — like mean comments about 
someone’s looks.

Studies have found that gossip can facilitate bonding and closeness and serve as a form of entertainment.  So, keep on 
talking. And when your conversation turns to gossip, as it inevitably will, remember that some good can come of it, 
with the right intentions, of course.

Gossip encourages social bonding. The people you gossip with become part of a group -- everyone else is outside of your 
group.  Gossip can play a lot of different roles in social interactions. When you gossip with someone, you and the 
person you're talking to are displaying reciprocal trust. The people you chose to gossip with are people you trust not 
to use the information that you're sharing against you.

Gossiping is enjoyable and when gossiping, people:

* Entertain each other
* Influence one another's opinions
* Exchange important information
* Point out and enforce social rules
* Learn from others' mistakes


### Definition of done
none

# KANBAN-ZAI.YAML
## SETTINGS

* TDD - Is testing part of your continuity strategy
* Automation - descibes the level to which automation is a factor in your continuity strategy
* posture - decribes the perspective the team will take on continuity


### TDD

Possible Values: true | false  DEFAULT: false

A team reaching consensus can solve many  of the problems that arise but sometimes it is hard to reach consensus.  The sole purpose of this setting is tie breaking.  It is a pre-determined agreement to gain consensus if there is a tie
in the voting.

## AUTOMATION - 

Possible Values: always | where practical | never  DEFAULT: always

Be carefull with this setting.  Setting it to the extreme one way or other requires commitment to whatever the strategy
suggests


Possible Values: design lead | balanced | developer lead  DEFAULT: balanced

Design lead teams imply that the design and ux flow must be accomplished regardless of the problems that may occur at 
the developer stage


### Posture

